# Visual Text Analysis of Arabic Literature in Translation
**see the full Visual Gallery on Instagram: [@aladab.al3rabi](https://www.instagram.com/aladab.al3rabi/)**  
This is a creative visual analysis project for Arabic 2702 at tOSU.  

\t For my final project I decided to do a text-mining analysis of some of the works we read in class. I used text from six stories from class to create data-driven visualizations that represented the tone and vocabulary used in the writings. Ideally, I would love it if some of these graphics sparked discussions about the source material and language usage in general. All of the visualizations can be seen in the Visual Gallery on my github or on Instagram at https://www.instagram.com/aladab.al3rabi/.
  
\t The first visualization technique I used was a word cloud. These highlight high-frequency words used in each of the texts. The most interesting two were the word clouds for Season of Migration to the North and Testimony of Malik. Season of Migration’s word cloud features most of the characters that we follow throughout the story, with Mustafa being the most prominently displayed in the middle. Almost all the words are either character names or action words, reflecting the narrator’s event-driven storytelling style. Testimony’s word cloud looks much more ominous, with “prisoner” in the focal point since this is how he’s referred to in the record throughout the story. Interestingly, many of the other frequently appearing words are more descriptive of the setting or characters.

\t Next I looked at word correlations within one story, Season of Migration. As I expected, the characters were heavily correlated with words related to their function in the story. What was interesting was the associated words with “man” versus those associated with “woman”. The word “man” correlated with action and function words, while the word “woman” correlated with “children”, “marriage”, and descriptions of appearance. This highlights how men and women are treated differently in the narrative of this story. A lot of this correlation may come from Mustafa’s own recounting of his past, where he has a very defined idea of gender roles and describes women in a very particular manner. I also compared the word correlations for “north” versus “village” to try and compare the two settings of London and Sudan. The words they correlate with highlight the difference in events that happen in those two settings in the story.

\t Finally, I generated sentiment scores for frequently occurring words in all of the texts and plotted them to compare the tone of the texts to each other in a visual manner. Accidental Transients and Season of Migration both have high positive scores for the word “like” most probably because of their frequent use of simile as opposed to the actual positive use of the word. The graphs really highlight the strong negative verbiage used in Testimony of Malik and Baghdad Syndrome, as well as the frequent swearing in Solar Grid. Notably, the most positively scoring text was The Actic Refugee, possibly because of the very positive descriptions of the native society in the story.
Overall, I think the visualizations turned out very interesting and I would love to create more visualizations from some of the other texts in class or even look at a wider analysis of Arabic Literature in general. It would also be interesting to see the same style analysis on these texts in the original Arabic, and compare the results. 


